# GenSynthNetMet Package
Contents of the package include R code, datsets, and documentation.  Within the GenSynthNetMet 
directory, the GenSynthNetMet_Package_Manual explains the functions, datasets, and input data files.

Subdirectories of GenSynthNetMet include:
* R  - source code for the functions described in the manual
* man - manual pages for the functions and data in R document format
* data - text and Comma Separated Value files for datasets and input data files
* vignettes - R documents that generated the vignettes that are linked to this ReadMe file
* metmat - a destination directory for matrices of metrics for randomly generated and synthesized networks
* results - a destination directory for HTML and CSV files generated by the code
* reports - a destination directory for text files containing the optimum metrics

## Purpose
Personality compatibility may affect the formation of social networks.  This package provides
utilities synthesizing social networks based on a compatibility table of Myers Briggs Type 
Indicators (MBTI) and searching for cohorts that produce networks with an realistic set of metrics. 
Within the context of this package, realism is defined as an averaged set of metrics from 
personality based synthesized social networks that are closer to the metrics of a real world network 
than the averged metrics from a set of randomly generated networks.

## Process Description
     A cohort is a collection of MBTI profiles where the number reflects the number of nodes in 
a real world network. Realistic means that the metrics are closer to the metrics of a real world 
network than the averaged metrics of 40 randomly generated networks that have the same number of nodes
and network density as the real world network. 
     Search functions apply the Monte Carlo (MC) method and a Genetic Algorithm (GA). In both 
types of search functions, the difference between the averaged metrics of the randomly generated 
networks and the real world metrics serve as a basis of comparison. Differences between the averaged 
metrics of 40 MBTI based synthesized and the real world network metrics are calculated and compared 
to the basis. The MC based synthesizes 40 networks based upon a randomly generated cohort, calculates 
and averages the metrics and compares the results to the basis. If a cohort is found that beats the 
basis then that cohort is saved and the process repeats. If another viable cohort is found it is 
compared to the previously saved cohort. If it performs better then it is save to the list of winning
cohorts. 
     The GA search synthesizes populations of cohorts and rank orders the cohorts based
upon the number of wins, i.e., metrics where the cohort performed better than the basis of
comparison. The two best cohorts provide the starting point for the next generation; which
is generated via cross-over methods and mutation. Utility functions support the search
functions by generating the networks, calculating the metrics, averaging the metrics,
generating comparison tables, and generating reports.

## Vignettes
* [Monte Carlo search for optimum set of metrics](https://daoneil.github.io/NetworkMetricSearch/executeMCSearch.html)
* [Genetic Algorithm based search for an optimum set of metrics](https://daoneil.github.io/NetworkMetricSearch/executeGAMetSearch.html)
